build(deps): bump ua-parser-js from 0.7.32 to 0.7.33 (#1113)
redpanda-data/documentation: modules/manage/partials/iceberg/use-iceberg-catalogs.adoc

ifndef::env-cloud[]
** Or, use config_ref:iceberg_rest_catalog_trust_file,true,properties/cluster-properties[`iceberg_rest_catalog_trust_file`] to specify the path to the certificate chain file.
endif::[]
* config_ref:iceberg_rest_catalog_crl,true,properties/cluster-properties[`iceberg_rest_catalog_crl`]: The contents of a certificate revocation list for `iceberg_rest_catalog_trust`.
ifndef::env-cloud[]
** Or, use config_ref:iceberg_rest_catalog_crl_file,true,properties/cluster-properties[`iceberg_rest_catalog_crl_file`] to specify the path to the certificate revocation list file.
endif::[]

See xref:reference:properties/cluster-properties.adoc[Cluster Configuration Properties] for the full list of cluster properties to configure for a catalog integration.

ifdef::env-cloud[]
=== Store a secret for REST catalog authentication

To store a secret that you can reference in your catalog authentication cluster properties, you must create the secret using `rpk` or the Data Plane API. Secrets are stored in the secret management solution of your cloud provider. Redpanda retrieves the secrets at runtime. 

> To learn more about `rpk` and the Cloud API, see xref:manage:rpk/intro-to-rpk.adoc[] and xref:manage:api/cloud-api-overview.adoc[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see xref:manage:rpk/intro-to-rpk.adoc[] and xref:manage:api/cloud-api-overview.adoc[].
```

If you need to configure any of the following properties, you must set their values using secrets:

* `iceberg_rest_catalog_client_secret`
* `iceberg_rest_catalog_crl`
* `iceberg_rest_catalog_token`
* `iceberg_rest_catalog_trust`

> To create a new secret, follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new secret:
```

. Make a request to xref:api:ROOT:cloud-dataplane-api.adoc#post-/v1/secrets[`POST /v1/secrets`]. You must use a Base64-encoded secret.
+
[,bash]
----
curl -X POST "https://<dataplane-api-url>/v1/secrets" \
 -H 'accept: application/json'\
 -H 'authorization: Bearer <token>'\
 -H 'content-type: application/json' \
 -d '{"id":"<secret-name>","scopes":["SCOPE_REDPANDA_CLUSTER"],"secret_data":"<secret-value>"}' 
----
+
You must include the following values:

- `<dataplane-api-url>`: The base URL for the Data Plane API.
- `<token>`: The API key you generated during authentication.
- `<secret-name>`: The name of the secret you want to add. The secret name is also its ID. Use only the following characters: `^[A-Z][A-Z0-9_]*$`.
- `<secret-value>`: The Base64-encoded secret.
- This scope: `"SCOPE_REDPANDA_CLUSTER"`.

+
The response returns the name and scope of the secret.

You can now <<use-a-secret-in-cluster-configuration,reference the secret in your cluster configuration>>.

--
=====

=== Use a secret in cluster configuration

To set the cluster property to use the value of the secret, use `rpk` or the Control Plane API.

> For example, to use a secret for the `iceberg_rest_catalog_client_secret` property, run the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to use a secret for the `iceberg_rest_catalog_client_secret` property, run:
```

See xref:reference:properties/cluster-properties.adoc[Cluster Configuration Properties] for the full list of cluster properties to configure for a catalog integration.

ifdef::env-cloud[]
=== Store a secret for REST authentication

To store secrets for authentication that are referenced in your cloud cluster properties, you must add the secrets using `rpk` or the Data Plane API. Secrets are stored in the secret management solution of your cloud provider. Redpanda retrieves the secrets at runtime. 

To store a new secret, run the following:

[tabs]
=====
rpk::
+
--
[,bash]
----
rpk security secret create --name <secret-name> --value <secret-value> --scopes redpanda_cluster
----
--

> 

Reviewer 2: The `+` and `--` denote blocks that belong to the tab named rpk, and are not diff artifacts

Data Plane API::
+
--
You must use a Base64-encoded secret.

. xref:manage:api/cloud-api-quickstart.adoc#try-the-cloud-api[Authenticate and get the base URL] for the Data Plane API.
. Make a request to xref:api:ROOT:cloud-dataplane-api.adoc#post-/v1/secrets[`POST /v1/secrets`].
+
[,bash]
----
curl -X POST "https://<dataplane-api-url>/v1/secrets" \
 -H 'accept: application/json'\
 -H 'authorization: Bearer <token>'\
 -H 'content-type: application/json' \
 -d '{"id":"<secret-name>","scopes":["SCOPE_REDPANDA_CLUSTER"],"secret_data":"<secret-value>"}' 
----

> +

Reviewer 2: The `+` and `--` markers denote blocks that belong to the tab named Data Plane API, and are not diff artifacts

You must include the following values:

- `<dataplane-api-url>`: The base URL for the Data Plane API.
- `<token>`: The API key you generated during authentication.
- `<secret-name>`: The ID or name of the secret you want to add. Use only the following characters: `^[A-Z][A-Z0-9_]*$`.
- `<secret-value>`: The Base64-encoded secret.
- This scope: `"SCOPE_REDPANDA_CLUSTER"`.

+
The response returns the name of the secret and the scope `"SCOPE_REDPANDA_CLUSTER"`.

You can now <<add-a-secret-to-cluster-configuration,add the secret to your cluster configuration>>.

--
=====

=== Add a secret to cluster configuration

To update the cluster property with the value of the secret, use `rpk` or the Control Plane API.

For example, to use a secret for the `iceberg_rest_catalog_client_secret` property, run the following:

[tabs]
=====
rpk::
+
--
[,bash]
----
rpk cluster config set iceberg_rest_catalog_client_secret <secret-name>
----

> --

Reviewer 2: The `+` and `--` denote blocks that belong to the tab named `rpk`, and are not diff artifacts

Control Plane API::
+
--
Make a request to xref:api:ROOT:cloud-controlplane-api.adoc#patch-/v1/clusters/-cluster.id-[`PATCH /v1/clusters/<cluster-id>`].

> 

Reviewer 2: The `+` and `--` denote blocks that belong to the tab named Control Plane API, and are not diff artifacts

See xref:reference:properties/cluster-properties.adoc[Cluster Configuration Properties] for the full list of cluster properties to configure for a catalog integration.

ifdef::env-cloud[]
=== Store a secret for REST authentication

> To store a secret that you can reference in your catalog authentication cluster properties, you must create the secret using `rpk` or the Data Plane API. Secrets are stored in the secret management solution of your cloud provider. Redpanda retrieves the secrets at runtime.

Reviewer 2: Need SME to confirm this description and behavior

Store secrets for the following properties:
* `iceberg_rest_catalog_client_secret`
* `iceberg_rest_catalog_crl`
* `iceberg_rest_catalog_token`
* `iceberg_rest_catalog_trust`

> 

Reviewer 2: The live version of this page currently specifies `iceberg_rest_catalog_crl_file` and `iceberg_rest_catalog_trust_file`: https://docs.redpanda.com/current/manage/iceberg/use-iceberg-catalogs/#connect-to-a-rest-catalog Should we change those to `_crl` and `_trust` instead?

Reviewer 3: we cannot use the ones with _file in cloud because you don't have access to filesystem

To create a new secret, run the following:

[tabs]
=====
rpk::
+
--
[,bash]
----
rpk security secret create --name <secret-name> --value <secret-value> --scopes redpanda_cluster
----
--

Data Plane API::
+
--
. xref:manage:api/cloud-api-quickstart.adoc#try-the-cloud-api[Authenticate and get the base URL] for the Data Plane API.
. Make a request to xref:api:ROOT:cloud-dataplane-api.adoc#post-/v1/secrets[`POST /v1/secrets`]. You must use a Base64-encoded secret.
+
[,bash]
----
curl -X POST "https://<dataplane-api-url>/v1/secrets" \
 -H 'accept: application/json'\
 -H 'authorization: Bearer <token>'\
 -H 'content-type: application/json' \
 -d '{"id":"<secret-name>","scopes":["SCOPE_REDPANDA_CLUSTER"],"secret_data":"<secret-value>"}' 
----
+
You must include the following values:

> - `<dataplane-api-url>`: The base URL for the Data Plane API.

Reviewer 3: should we link some docs on how to get this?

Reviewer 2: The ordered list of steps to create the secret includes a link to the doc that explains how to retrieve the URL. 

I'll also add links to more general intro docs on the API and rpk at the start of the section.

You can now <<use-a-secret-in-cluster-configuration,reference the secret in your cluster configuration>>.

--
=====

=== Use a secret in cluster configuration

To set the cluster property to use the value of the secret, use `rpk` or the Control Plane API.

For example, to use a secret for the `iceberg_rest_catalog_client_secret` property, run the following:

[tabs]
=====
rpk::
+
--
[,bash]
----
rpk cluster config set iceberg_rest_catalog_client_secret <secret-name>
----
--

Control Plane API::
+
--
Make a request to xref:api:ROOT:cloud-controlplane-api.adoc#patch-/v1/clusters/-cluster.id-[`PATCH /v1/clusters/<cluster-id>`].

[,bash]
----
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>" -X PATCH \
"https://api.cloud.redpanda.com/v1/clusters/<cluster-id>" \
-H 'accept: application/json'\
-H 'content-type: application/json' \
-d '{"cluster_configuration": {
        "custom_properties": {
            "iceberg_rest_catalog_client_secret": <secret-name>
            }
        }
    }'
----

You must include the following values:

- `<cluster-id>`: The ID of the Redpanda cluster.
- `<token>`: The API key you generated during authentication.

> - `<secret-name>`: The name of the secret you created earlier. The secret name is also its ID.

Reviewer 3: the secret name has to be ${secrets.<NAME>} as is is in connect

Reviewer 2: Updated

> See xref:reference:properties/cluster-properties.adoc[Cluster Configuration Properties] for the full list of cluster properties to configure for a catalog integration.

Reviewer 3: we should probably hide the _file properties from cloud docs, as they cannot be applied. I did not go over this line by line but we should never reference anything else than what's on this list https://github.com/redpanda-data/cloudv2/blob/main/install-pack/25.1.yml#L80

Reviewer 2: Updated so that the _file properties are only mentioned in the Self-managed version of the page

ifdef::env-cloud[]
=== Store a secret for REST catalog authentication

> To store a secret that you can reference in your catalog authentication cluster properties, you must create the secret using `rpk` or the Cloud API. Secrets are stored in the secret management solution of your cloud provider. Redpanda retrieves the secrets at runtime. 

Reviewer 3: nit cloud api -> dataplane api

Reviewer 2: Updated

> To learn more about `rpk` and the Cloud API, see xref:manage:rpk/intro-to-rpk.adoc[] and xref:manage:api/cloud-api-overview.adoc[].

Reviewer 3: again this should probably talk about dataplane api, right?

Reviewer 2: To get the data plane API url, users have to authenticate and then call the Control Plane API first. I'll change it to specifically say "you must create the secret using... the Data Plane API," but I think directing them to the overview doc to learn more about the API in general is still appropriate.

> Store secrets for the following properties:

Reviewer 3: btw. not all of these are needed for all catalogs so we should make sure to word it in such way that if you need to use any of these properties, they have to be done via the secret references.

Reviewer 2: Rephrased

[tabs]
=====
rpk::
+
--
Run the following `rpk` command:

[,bash]
----
rpk security secret create --name <secret-name> --value <secret-value> --scopes redpanda_cluster
----
--

Cloud API::
+
--
. Authenticate and make a `GET /v1/clusters/\{id}` request to xref:manage:api/cloud-dataplane-api.adoc#get-data-plane-api-url[retrieve the Data Plane API URL] for your cluster.
. Make a request to xref:api:ROOT:cloud-dataplane-api.adoc#post-/v1/secrets[`POST /v1/secrets`]. You must use a Base64-encoded secret.
+
[,bash]
----
curl -X POST "https://<dataplane-api-url>/v1/secrets" \
 -H 'accept: application/json'\
 -H 'authorization: Bearer <token>'\
 -H 'content-type: application/json' \
 -d '{"id":"<secret-name>","scopes":["SCOPE_REDPANDA_CLUSTER"],"secret_data":"<secret-value>"}' 
----
+
You must include the following values:

- `<dataplane-api-url>`: The base URL for the Data Plane API.
- `<token>`: The API key you generated during authentication.
- `<secret-name>`: The name of the secret you want to add. The secret name is also its ID. Use only the following characters: `^[A-Z][A-Z0-9_]*$`.
- `<secret-value>`: The Base64-encoded secret.
- This scope: `"SCOPE_REDPANDA_CLUSTER"`.

+

> The response returns the name of the secret and the scope `"SCOPE_REDPANDA_CLUSTER"`.

Reviewer 3: I find this line redundant.

Reviewer 2: Updated

You can now <<use-a-secret-in-cluster-configuration,reference the secret in your cluster configuration>>.

--
=====

=== Use a secret in cluster configuration

To set the cluster property to use the value of the secret, use `rpk` or the Cloud API.

For example, to use a secret for the `iceberg_rest_catalog_client_secret` property, run the following:

[tabs]
=====
rpk::
+
--
[,bash]
----

> rpk cluster config set iceberg_rest_catalog_client_secret <secret-name>

Reviewer 3: should we rather say that secret-name should be ${secrets.<secret-name>}?

Reviewer 2: Updated with the correct syntax
